Add migration phases pages (#8828)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _migrations/migration-phases/verifying-tools-for-migration.md

---
layout: default
title: Verifying tools for migrations
nav_order: 70
parent: Migration phases
---

# Verifying tools for migration

> Before using the migration assistant, take the following steps to verify that you're cluster is ready for migration.

Reviewer: Inconsistent casing. (As a side note, I know we use “Migration Assistant,” but since Migration Assistant is the name of a product, I think we can remove “the” in each of these occurrences. These changes should be applied consistently.)

> Before using the migration assistant, take the following steps to verify that you're cluster is ready for migration.

Author: ```suggestion
Before using the Migration Assistant, take the following steps to verify that you're cluster is ready for migration.
```

## Snapshot creation verification

> Verify that a snapshot can be created from your cluster and used for metadata and backfill scenarios.

Author: Lets get more specific, how about "source cluster."

### Installing the Elasticsearch S3 Repository plugin

> The snapshot needs to be stored in a location that the Migration Assistant can access. This guides uses AWS S3 as  and the Migration Assistant creates an S3 bucket for this purpose. Therefore, it is necessary to install the [Elasticsearch S3 Repository](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html) plugin on your source nodes (https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html).

Author: ```suggestion
The snapshot needs to be stored in a location that the Migration Assistant can access. This guides uses AWS S3 as and the Migration Assistant creates an S3 bucket for this purpose. Therefore, it is necessary to install the [Elasticsearch S3 Repository](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html) plugin on your source nodes (https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html).
```

Author: @sumobrian: Wondering if there's a good way to make this more cloud agnostic. For example, adding a sentence such as "This guide uses AWS S3 as and the Migration Assistant creates an S3 bucket for this purpose, but the steps can be modified for your own cloud provider."

> 

Author: ```suggestion
The snapshot needs to be stored in a location that Migration Assistant can access. This guide uses Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). By default, Migration Assistant creates an S3 bucket for storage. Therefore, it is necessary to install the [Elasticsearch S3 repository plugin](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html) on your source nodes (https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html).
```

> 

Author: @natebowerL How about the above suggestion?

> The snapshot needs to be stored in a location that the Migration Assistant can access. We use AWS S3 as that location, and the Migration Assistant creates an S3 bucket for this purpose. Therefore, it is necessary to install the [Elasticsearch S3 Repository](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html) Plugin on your source nodes (https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html).

Author: ```suggestion
The snapshot needs to be stored in a location that the Migration Assistant can access. This guides uses AWS S3 as  and the Migration Assistant creates an S3 bucket for this purpose. Therefore, it is necessary to install the [Elasticsearch S3 Repository](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html) plugin on your source nodes (https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3.html).
```

> Additionally, make sure that the plugin has been configured with AWS credentials that allow it to read and write to AWS S3. If your Elasticsearch cluster is running on EC2 or ECS instances with an execution IAM Role, include the necessary S3 permissions. Alternatively, you can store the credentials in the [Elasticsearch Key Store](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3-client.html) ↗.

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, make sure that the plugin has been configured with AWS credentials that allow it to read and write to AWS S3. If your Elasticsearch cluster is running on EC2 or ECS instances with an execution IAM Role, include the necessary S3 permissions. Alternatively, you can store the credentials in the [Elasticsearch keystore](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/7.10/repository-s3-client.html).
```

> ### Verifying S3 Repository Plugin configuration

Author: ```suggestion
### Verifying the S3 Repository plugin configuration
```

  "type": "s3",
  "settings": {
    "bucket": "<your-bucket-name>",
    "region": "<your-aws-region>"
  }
}'
```

Next, create a test snapshot that captures only the cluster's metadata:

```shell
curl -X PUT "http://<your-source-cluster>:9200/_snapshot/test_s3_repository/test_snapshot_1" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "indices": "",
  "ignore_unavailable": true,
  "include_global_state": true
}'
```

Check the AWS Console to confirm that your bucket contains the snapshot. 

### Removing test snapshots after verification

To remove the resources created during verification you can use the following deletion commands:

**Test snapshot**

```shell
curl -X DELETE "http://<your-source-cluster>:9200/_snapshot/test_s3_repository/test_snapshot_1?pretty"
```

**Test snapshot repository**

```shell
curl -X DELETE "http://<your-source-cluster>:9200/_snapshot/test_s3_repository?pretty"
```

**S3 bucket**

```shell
aws s3 rm s3://<your-bucket-name> --recursive
aws s3api delete-bucket --bucket <your-bucket-name> --region <your-aws-region>
```

### Troubleshooting

Use this guidance to troubleshoot any of the following snapshot verification issues:

> #### Access Denied Error (403)

Author: ```suggestion
#### Access denied error (403)
```

If you encounter an error like `AccessDenied (Service: Amazon S3; Status Code: 403)`, verify the following:

- The IAM role assigned to your Elasticsearch cluster has the necessary S3 permissions.
- The bucket name and region provided in the snapshot configuration match the actual S3 bucket you created.

#### Older versions of Elasticsearch

> Older versions of the Elasticsearch S3 Repository Plugin may have trouble reading IAM Role credentials embedded in AWS EC2 and AWS ECS Instances. This is due to the copy of the AWS SDK shipped in them being too old to read the new standard way of retrieving those credentials, as shown in [the Instance Metadata Service v2 (IMDSv2) specification](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html). This can result in snapshot creation failures, with an error message like:

Author: ```suggestion
Older versions of the Elasticsearch S3 Repository Plugin may have trouble reading IAM Role credentials embedded in Amazon EC2 and AWS ECS Instances. This is due to the copy of the AWS SDK shipped in them being too old to read the new standard way of retrieving those credentials, as shown in [the Instance Metadata Service v2 (IMDSv2) specification](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html). This can result in snapshot creation failures, with an error message like:
```

```json
{"error":{"root_cause":[{"type":"repository_verification_exception","reason":"[migration_assistant_repo] path [rfs-snapshot-repo] is not accessible on master node"}],"type":"repository_verification_exception","reason":"[migration_assistant_repo] path [rfs-snapshot-repo] is not accessible on master node","caused_by":{"type":"i_o_exception","reason":"Unable to upload object [rfs-snapshot-repo/tests-s8TvZ3CcRoO8bvyXcyV2Yg/master.dat] using a single upload","caused_by":{"type":"amazon_service_exception","reason":"Unauthorized (Service: null; Status Code: 401; Error Code: null; Request ID: null)"}}},"status":500}
```

> If you encounter this issue, you can resolve it by temporarily enabling IMDSv1 on the Instances in your source cluster for the duration of the snapshot.  There is a toggle for it available in [the AWS Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/configuring-instance-metadata-options.html), as well as in [the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/modify-instance-metadata-options.html#options).  Flipping this toggle will turn on the older access model and enable the Elasticsearch S3 Repository Plugin to work as normal.

Author: ```suggestion
If you encounter this issue, you can resolve it by temporarily enabling IMDSv1 on the Instances in your source cluster for the duration of the snapshot. There is a toggle for it available in [the AWS Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/configuring-instance-metadata-options.html), as well as in [the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/modify-instance-metadata-options.html#options).  Flipping this toggle will turn on the older access model and enable the Elasticsearch S3 Repository plugin to work as normal.
```

> 

Author: This link would likely fit better: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/configuring-IMDS-existing-instances.html

> 

Author: Because of the tabs, I'll switch to just a a single link.

* Verify that the target cluster allows traffic ingress from the **Target Proxy Security Group**.
* Navigate to the **Target Proxy ECS Tasks** to investigate any failing tasks:
   * Set the "Filter desired status" to "Any desired status" to view all tasks, then navigate to the logs for any stopped tasks.

## Validating replication

This section describes how to verify that replication is working once the traffic capture proxy is deployed

1. Navigate to the **Migration ECS Cluster** in AWS Console.
2. Navigate to **Capture Proxy Service**.
3. Verify that the capture proxy is running the desired proxy count and running. If not, update service to increase to at least 1 and wait for startup.
4. Under the **Health and Metrics** > **Load balancer health** verify that all targets are healthy. This means that the ALB is able to connect to the source cluster through the capture proxy.
5. Navigate to the **Migration Console Terminal**.
6. Run `console kafka describe-topic-records`. Wait 30 seconds for another ALB health check.
7. Run `console kafka describe-topic-records` again and verify the number of RECORDS increased between runs.

> 8. Run `console replay start` to start the traffic replayer.

Author: ```suggestion
8. Run `console replay start` to start the Traffic Replayer.
```

> 9.  Run `tail -f /shared-logs-output/traffic-replayer-default/*/tuples/tuples.log  | jq '.targetResponses[]."Status-Code"'` to confirm that the Kafka requests were sent to the the target and that it responded as expected. If the responses don't appear:

Author: ```suggestion
9.  Run `tail -f /shared-logs-output/traffic-replayer-default/*/tuples/tuples.log  | jq '.targetResponses[]."Status-Code"'` to confirm that the Kafka requests were sent to the target and that it responded as expected. If the responses don't appear:
```

    * Check that the migration-console can access the target cluster by running `./catIndices.sh`, which should show indices on the source and target.
    * Confirm that messages are still being recorded to Kafka.

>     * Check for errors in the replayer logs ("/migration/STAGE/default/traffic-replayer-default") via CloudWatch

Author: ```suggestion
    * Check for errors in the replayer logs ("/migration/STAGE/default/traffic-replayer-default") using CloudWatch.
```

>     * Check for errors in the replayer logs ("/migration/STAGE/default/traffic-replayer-default") using CloudWatch.

Author: ```suggestion
    * Check for errors in the Replayer logs (`/migration/STAGE/default/traffic-replayer-default`) using CloudWatch.
```

10. (Reset) Update Traffic Capture Proxy service desired count back to it's original value in ECS.

### Troubleshooting

Use this guidance to troubleshoot any of the following replication validation issues:

### Health checks response with 401/403 status code

If the source cluster is configured to require authentication the capture proxy will not be able to verify beyond receiving 401/403 status code for ALB health checks. For more information, see [Traffic Capture Proxy Failure Modes](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/blob/main/TrafficCapture/trafficCaptureProxyServer/README.md#failure-modes)

### Traffic does not reach the source cluster 

Verify that the source cluster allows traffic ingress from the Capture Proxy Security Group.

> Look for failing tasks by navigating to **Traffic Capture Proxy ECS** tasks.  Change **Filter desired status** to **Any desired status** in order to see all tasks and navigate to logs for stopped tasks.

Author: ```suggestion
Look for failing tasks by navigating to **Traffic Capture Proxy ECS** tasks. Change **Filter desired status** to **Any desired status** in order to see all tasks and navigate to logs for stopped tasks.
```

## Resetting before migration

After all verifications are complete, reset all resources before using Migration Assistant from an actual migration. 

> The following steps outline how to reset resources with Migration Assistant before executing the actual migration. At this point all verifications are expected to have been completed. These steps can be performed after [[Accessing the Migration Console]]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following steps outline how to reset Migration Assistant resources before executing an actual migration. At this point, all verifications are expected to be complete. These steps can be performed after [[Accessing the Migration Console]].
```

> 

Author: Should be a link to a different page. I updated the page.

> ### Replayer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Traffic Replayer
```

> To stop a running Replayer, use the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To stop Traffic Replayer, use the following command:
```

> To stop a running replayer service, use the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
To stop a running Replayer, use the following command:
```

```bash
console replay stop
```

### Kafka 

> The clear all captured traffic from the Kafka topic, the following command can be executed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To clear all captured traffic from the Kafka topic, you can run the following command. 
```

> This command will result in the loss of any captured traffic data up to this point by the capture proxy and thus should be used with caution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will result in the loss of any traffic data captured by the capture proxy up to this point and thus should be used with caution.
```

{: .warning}

```bash
console kafka delete-topic
```

### Target cluster 

> To clear non-system indexes from the target cluster that may have been created from testing, the following command can be executed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To clear non-system indexes from the target cluster that may have been created from testing, you can run the following command. 
```

> To clear non-system indices from the target cluster that may have been created from testing, the following command can be executed. 

Author: ```suggestion
To clear non-system indexes from the target cluster that may have been created from testing, the following command can be executed. 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Line 188: "from" => "as a result of"?

> This command will result in the loss of all data on the target cluster and should be used with caution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will result in the loss of all data in the target cluster and should be used with caution.
```
